From: Aifang Xie [mailto:xieaf@yahoo.com]  
Sent: Thursday, February 01, 2007 2:34 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: against the immigration fee increasing. 

Hi, there, 

I was surpried and angry to see that immgration fee 
would be increased so much this time. This is 
unbelivable and unreasonable. You know, we work here 
and pay so much tax every year to goverment, but why 
we need to pay so much immigration fee again? I think 
there should be no immgration fee at all. The 
immgration department (USCIS) should ask the goverment 
to pay the fee. US goverment wastes so much money on 
wars, why not pay a little immgration fee for us, who 
pay so much tax (for me alone, I need to pay tax 
around 15,000 just this year) every year? Really, it 
is not free for us to live here. We work here and pay 
any tax as a citizen, but we can not enjoy some 
benifit from goverment as a citizen. So, it is unfair 
for us to pay more immgation fee. 

In all, the immgration fees should not be increased so 
much around two times if you really need to increase 
them. Meanwhile, even if the immgration fee increase, 
can you promise that your service can be better than 
before? 

Thank you for seeing my comments. 

Xie