Mary Waltermire 
911 22nd Street 
Sacramento, CA 95816-4701 

April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave.  NW, 3d Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

 Director, Regulatory Management Division: 

On behalf of Schoenleber & Waltermire, P.C., we are writing to strongly 
oppose the increase to immigration and naturalization fees that US 
Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) proposed on February 1, 2007. 

We are members of a private law firm primarily representing blue-collar 
immigrants and their family members. Many of the immigrants and refugees 
we work with on a daily basis already struggle to pay immigration fees.  
The steep increases proposed by USCIS, which in some cases double the 
current fee, would put the goals of gaining permanent residence status, 
reuniting with family members, and ultimately becoming a US citizen 
farther out of reach.  USCIS should be building bridges for immigrants to 
move toward citizenship, not putting up walls. 

The proposed fee for naturalization is particularly jarring.  As recently 
as 1998, the cost to apply for citizenship was $95.  In 2002, after the 
Bush Administration took office, the costs (including biometric fees) went 
up from $250 to $310.  The total fees are now $400, a fourfold increase in 
the past eight years.  Now USCIS is proposing a further increase of 70%, 
to $675.  An immigrant working at a minimum-wage job would need to work 
for more than three weeks and save all of his earnings in order to pay 
this fee. 

Even more startling is the proposed cost of filing for adjustment of 
status, which for many immigrants is the first step on the road leading to 
US citizenship.  That application has risen from $130 in 1998 to $325 
today, plus $75 for biometrics.   Under the proposed rule, the price will 
rise to $905 plus $80 for biometrics.  In other words, it will cost nearly 
$1,000 for an immigrant to get a green card and start the five-year 
countdown to citizenship.  A minimum-wage immigrant worker would need to 
save a full monthâ€™s pay to afford the proposed fee. . USCIS claims that 
the fee increase is necessary to improve service.  USCIS definitely needs 
to improve service, as shown by the continuing backlogs in application 
processing and the months-long (even years-long) delays caused by security 
checks.  Last October, the Government Accountability Office reported that 
the agency had lost track of 110,000 files needed to process citizenship 
cases.  We applaud USCISâ€™s efforts to improve service.  We nevertheless 
believe that the burden of paying for such improvements should not rest 
solely with immigrants who are already struggling to pay agency costs and 
receiving poor service.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
USCIS also argues that it has no other option than raising fees if it 
wants to cover its costs.  In fact, there are no laws that require USCIS 
to fund all of its operations through fees.  Nothing prevents USCIS from 
pursuing other sources of revenue, including asking Congress for 
appropriations.  Indeed, USCIS has sought and received Congressional 
funding several times in the past 

Most basically, immigration and citizenship are public goods that benefit 
our entire country and that we as a nation should help pay for.  
Immigrants bring their talent and hard work to our economy.  They pay 
taxes and help revitalize our communities.  In becoming citizens, 
immigrants demonstrate their strong commitment to their new home country 
by learning English, gaining knowledge about American history and 
government, and swearing allegiance to the United States.  It is little 
wonder that newly naturalized citizens, eager to participate in our 
democracy, consistently vote at higher rates than other citizens.  We 
should be encouraging immigrants to become part of our community by 
gaining legal status and becoming citizens, not setting up barriers that 
block their path and keep them out.  

For all these reasons, the proposal to increase immigration fees is 
misguided and counterproductive.  We urge USCIS to reconsider this 
proposal, and to seek other sources of funding for its operations, rather 
than add more burdens on immigrants.  Thank you for your consideration. 

Sincerely, 

Michael W. Schoenleber, President; Mary M. Waltermire, Vice President 
(916) 441-5327