Jeffrey Hashman 
2701 S. Stilwell 
Pittsburg, KS 66762-6541 

March 16, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am an international educator and program coordinator who works with 
international students.  I am writing to protest the February 1, 2007, 
proposed rule Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule.  The proposed fee increases are so 
exorbitant they will act as a disincentive for international students and 
scholars to study and work in the United States.  I am not asking USCIS to 
reduce fees to the actual cost of processing the application or petition, 
as many of my colleagues are.  I think that we need to be reasonable and 
recognize the fees are part of the way that revenues are raised.  However, 
I do ask for a reasonable increase.  How do you think American citizens 
would react to these kinds of increases?  I hope that the we would show 
the same consideration to foreign visitors. 

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including: 

   ï¿½The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340. 

   ï¿½The increases in the fees required in connection with change of 
status from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 
percent increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status 
for dependents and the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) 
in the I-129 petition for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of 
the required data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part 
of the fee schedule. 

   ï¿½The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B 
to legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in the 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of 
those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be 
paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.) 

Many colleges and universities pay the USCIS fees for the green card 
process for the person being hired.  It is less common for the fees for 
the family members, such as spouse and children, to be paid for by the 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
colleges or universities.  The increases in fees will have a severe impact 
on families.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefitsï¿½for our foreign policy, our studentsï¿½ 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public 
diplomacyï¿½from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next 
generation of world leaders to Americaï¿½s educational institutions. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Jeffrey W. Hashman 
620/231-5404 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [lzjdROG4] 

Changed message text: 45.4%