Elizabeth Streefland 
4050 Olson Memorial Hwy #245 
Golden Valley, MN 55422-5353 

April 2, 2007 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave.  NW, 3d Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

 Director, Regulatory Management Division: 

As the chapter chair of the Minnesota/Dakotas chapter of the American 
Immigration Lawyer's association, I am writing to express my chapter's 
concern and disapproval of the proposed fee increases for the following 
reasons:    

Questionable Calculations 

The premises underlying the calculations shown in the Activity-Based 
Costing analysis in the proposed rulemaking appear to be flawed.  Table 9 
lists processing times for forms in locations that have no jurisdiction to 
process those form types.  For instance, local offices no longer have 
jurisdiction to process Forms I-129 (.09 hours listed), I-129F (4.98 hours 
listed), I-140 (2.00 hours listed), I-539 (1.32 hours listed) and I-829 
(4.45 hours listed), but local office completion rates are listed for 
those form types.  Conversely, Forms N-470 are filed and processed at 
local offices, but 1.91 hours is listed as a completion rate for Service 
Centers.  

At Section X, the Service discusses a threefold increase in completion 
rates for a number of application types, claiming that most of the 
increases are "associated with the additional time devoted to the 
expansion of background checks."  This makes no sense.  Are checks being 
run on both the I-140s and I-485s when they are filed concurrently?  From 
a cost and efficiency standpoint, why is the Service conducting background 
checks on non-concurrently filed I-140 petitions?  What can the Service do 
with that information, since the I-140 confers no benefit until an 
adjustment of status or immigrant visa application is filed?   Is it 
turned over to law enforcement?  If that is the case, why is that check 
not being funded as a law enforcement activity since, again, there is no 
immigration-related reason to run a check on an I-140?  

It has been more than five years since IBIS checks were introduced across 
the board to filings.  Surely the Service has found a more efficient means 
to conduct them now than it used in the initial, post 9/11, process?  If 
so, a threefold increase in completion rates for I-140s, I-129Fs or I-751s 
hardly seems accurate.  

In addition, the data for "Make Determination" costs do not appear to 
correspond in any logical manner with the Completion Rate data.  For 
instance, why are the "Make Determination" costs for I-360s calculated at 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$2,268 when the Completion Rates are not significantly higher than for 
other form types?  As another example, why are I-765 "Make Determination" 
costs significantly higher than I-90 costs, while I-765 completion rates 
are much lower than I-90 completion rates?  Why are I-102 and I-129 "Make 
Determination" costs the same when their completion rates are very 
different (as would be expected for these vastly different adjudication 
jobs)? 

Also, there is some question as to whether the Service is fully accounting 
for its other revenues.  It dismisses as a "smaller, specific" account the 
monies received through the anti-fraud fee.  However, the agency's 2006 
budget request estimated annual revenues from this fee at $44 million.  
The proposal requests from the Immigration Examination Fee Account (IFEA) 
a sum of  more than $31 million to fund the Fraud Detection and National 
Security Division without mentioning the monies from the anti-fraud fee.  
Where has that money gone? 

Fee Waivers 

The Service announces in the rulemaking its intention to waive fees on a 
blanket basis for VAWA I-360 petitions.  Even as the Service proposes to 
waive these fees, it proposes to eliminate any possibility of fee waiver 
for adjustment of status applications.  Thus, while waiving a $375 fee, 
the proposal would foreclose all possibility of waiver of the higher, $905 
fee (plus $805/905 per person for any children involved) for this most 
vulnerable group of applicants.  Relief will become out of the reach of 
many of the people VAWA was enacted to protect. 

The Service proposes to include in the adjustment of status fee increase 
the fees for employment authorization and advance parole applications.  
However, not all I-485 applicants wish to obtain these ancillary benefits. 

Despite what seems to be the Service's impression to the contrary, the 
statute does not require that it fund all its operations via fees. Under 
INA section 286(m), "fees for providing adjudication and naturalization 
services may be set at a level that will ensure recovery of the full costs 
of providing all such services." 

The authorizing statute limits the fee-funding scope to "providing 
adjudication and naturalization services" and administering the fees.  It 
does not authorize fees to cover other activities. Many of the costs 
anticipated by this fee regulation do not belong in the fee account.  The 
Service has chosen to expand its mission beyond adjudication and 
naturalization and enter into the realm of law enforcement.  

When the Department of Homeland Security was established, Congress 
consciously and deliberately separated the Department's adjudicative arm 
(USCIS) from its enforcement arm (what has become ICE and CBP).  The 
intent was to keep the functions separate.  Even if the agency has strayed 
from that intent in its operations, at a minimum the funding should be 
kept separate. 

The Service should seek appropriated funds at a level sufficient to pay 
for the additional services and processes that, in turn, benefit everyone. 
 For example, increased payments to the FBI for fingerprint, name, and 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
security checks which benefit national security;  processing of Freedom of 
Information Act requests, for which every other government agency receives 
appropriated funds; agency administration with nine headquarters offices 
and field locations worldwide; and information technology enhancements, 
should not be borne by applicants alone.  In addition, funding for 
Internal Security and Investigative Operations for the investigation of 
misconduct of Federal and contract employees should not benefit from user 
fees.  

The fee increases will effectively impose a means test on the ability of 
immigrants to attain U.S. citizenship, which is contrary to our national 
values.  We should not be erecting monetary barriers to their achieving 
U.S. citizenship. 

The immigration process continues to be plagued by inconsistent and 
inefficient adjudication.  These problems result in part from the agency's 
inability to issue regulations on substantive issues that would provide 
adjudicators with clear guidance.  Indeed, since its inception, USCIS has 
been unable to produce more than one or two regulations that were not 
related to revenues or required by judicial order, despite a multitude of 
laws that scream out for regulatory implementation.  

Also, significant numbers of I-485 and N-400 cases have been awaiting 
security clearances for years.  And, recently, the Service announced that 
it no longer will expedite clearances when mandamus actions are filed on 
these long-stalled applications.  This, in turn, will increase overall 
costs for the Service in the form of costs for defending these suits 
(including paying EAJA fees).   

Many foreign nationals in the United States, whether they are in status or 
out of status, will not be able to afford the increased filing fees and 
will therefore delay filing their adjustment of status applications.  Many 
may not be able to file the adjustment applications at all or will only be 
able to file the applications for some family members but not all of the 
members of the family.  For a typical family of four, filing fees for 
adjustment will cost approximately $3940 plus $1360 for annual employment 
authorization applications if there is a delay in the security checks.   
Consequently, these middle income families who need to save for the filing 
fees will remain living in the United States without undergoing any type 
of security check.  Additionally, undocumented families will remain in 
hiding, possibly using false identification, because of their inability to 
pay the increased filing fees.   Both of these situations will frustrate 
one of the main security concerns of the state and federal governments -- 
the proper identification and background checks of its residents.  
Increasing the filing fees will compound these security problems because 
large number of people will delay or avoid going through the security 
checks due to the expense of filing of adjustment of status. 

The proposed fee increase would undoubtedly discourage immigrant 
communities from seeking legal solutions to their immigration 
circumstances. Such increases would stunt all efforts to encourage people 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to naturalize and to petition for their family members already present in 
the United States because a significant percentage of immigrants belong to 
low-income households that cannot absorb any more costs associated with 
legalizing their family members. 

The proposed fee increase would have a tremendous adverse impact on 
legitimate sources of immigration legal services. This is because the 
economic demand imposed by this fee increase on immigrant families will 
likely lead even greater numbers of them into the hands of predatory and 
unregulated sources of â€œhelpâ (cid:31)€ , often known as â€œnotariosâ (cid:31)€ , and will 
make more families vulnerable to cheaper, yet unreliable, services.  An 
increase in predatory and unregulated services to the community will 
unequivocally result in a flood of frivolous, fraudulent and defective 
case filings to USCIS. 

The proposed fee increase would discourage undocumented immigrants with 
viable immigration cases to seek legal and legitimate solutions because 
the economic burden of doing would make it prohibitive. In addition to 
proliferating predatory sources of non-legal services, this will also mean 
a growth in the underground markets for fraudulent and false documents, 
identity theft and other sources of palliative solutions to immigration 
problems. 

Sincerely, 

Elizabeth M. Streefland 
612-605-1199