Julie Harris 
252 S. Bleckley 
Wichita, KS 67218-1522 

March 6, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing this letter in staunch opposition to the proposed rule 
"Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and 
Petition Fee Schedule."  

While slight increases in USCIS fees are to be expected due to increased 
costs, the proposed increases are unreasonable and unjustifiable.  A prime 
example is the I-765 fee that international students must to pay to apply 
for Optional Practical Training work authorization, which, under the 
proposed fee schedule, would almost double from $180 to $340.  This 
benefit is one that could easily be administered by authorized schools (as 
it was under the former INS).  These schools are still allowed to grants 
other benefits such as program extensions and Curricular Practical 
Training.  If these benefits are still to be unnecessarily administered by 
the USCIS, the maximum the student should be charged is the cost of 
processing the application.  The I-765 fee is also charged to students 
requesting work authorization due to Severe Economic Hardship.  The are 
students with serious, unforseeable, short-term financial difficulty.  
$180 is already an extremely difficult fee for them to assume, but simply 
$340 is callous and unreasonable. 

International students are an asset to all aspects of the United States.  
We are fortunate to have such talented and diverse individuals studying 
and working legally in our country.  Opportunities should be available to 
them at a minimum fee - the actual cost of processing the application and 
nothing more. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Julie Harris 
316-253-6119 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [RTN53Bs4] 

Changed message text: 93.0%