From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of 
Elizabeth Leibach 
Sent: Monday, March 05, 2007 12:36 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Elizabeth Leibach 
307 Halket Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3104 

March 5, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule. 

A fee increase of this significant will cause enormous hardship to 
internationals who are conducting incredible research but must rely on 
stipends that are funded almost entirely by research grants.  All large 
universities provide stipends and salaries for international students, 
scholars and faculty by "soft" money governmental grants.  This type of 
work brings a low wage as compared to the private industry but the work is 
cutting edge and necessary in all types of research efforts including 
cancer research. 

For example, one of our faculty received funding from the National Science 
Foundation.  While its a signficant amount of funding, this faculty member 
must use this money to fund several researchers to work on these large and 
important projects.  Therefore, salaries are often low even though the 
researchers are highly educated.  They make the committment to work for 
the university verses the private industry whose salaries are much higher. 
 Many of these people come with family members and so the costs for 
immigration services really takes a toll on their livelihood in the U.S. 

The proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a 
disincentive for international students and scholars to study and work in 
the United States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds 
to meet the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be 
reduced to the actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
annually, including: 

The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F status 
to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, from $180 
to $340.   We file hundreds of these cases each year. 

The increases in the fees required in connection with change of status 
from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 percent 
increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status, and the 
increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in the I-129 petition 
for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the required data 
collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of the fee 
schedule.  Currenlty, my university files approximately 400 H-1B petitions 
each year. 

The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in the 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of 
those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be 
paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.)    My 
university files approximately 100-150 Lawful Permanent Residency cases 
each year. 

Many colleges and universities pay the USCIS fees for the green card 
process for the person being hired.  It is less common for the fees for 
the family members, such as spouse and children, to be paid for by the 
colleges or universities.  The increases in fees will have a severe impact 
on families.    

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefitsâ€"for our foreign policy, our studentsâ€™ 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public 
diplomacyâ€"from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next 
generation of world leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to meet 
its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady source of 
funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required modernization 
of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not acceptable as a 
matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of the 
reach of those who need them.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Elizabeth Leibach 
4124917270 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [36bekcg2] 

Changed message text: 42.2%