From: Melody Bokmeyer [mailto:melody.bokmeyer@gmail.com]  
Sent: Saturday, March 03, 2007 9:20 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS fee increases 

I am currently adopting from China. My husband and I have paid our  
fees to USCIS and have been granted permission to adopt  
internationally. Because the time line to adopt from China is so  
lengthy, we will have to re-do our application I600A so we remain  
current with our documentation. 

I agree that USCIS IT systems seem outdated, I mean, How On Earth can  
our FINGERPRINTS expire? Why would we have to go through  
fingerprinting again? If your new plan of bringing USCIS into the  
21st Century includes storing that data in such a way that it doesn't  
expire, then I agree with the fees. However, we are not thrilled  
about having to re-do our application (and pay the SAME fees all over  
again) because the time limit on the 171H expires, simply because the  
USCIS can't store all of the information, especially when our  
circumstances haven't changed. 

I read the FAQS on-line and I didn't see anywhere about the update to  
the biometric information, especially no mention of the storage of  
that information. It is unbelievable to me that we will have to pay  
the increased fee in order to remain current. All the initial work  
was done and approved, why should we have to be re-approved at the  
same cost (now increasing), after such a short time frame (the 171H  
is only valid for 18 months). 

I hope to see this issue addressed somewhere soon. It just doesn't  
seem right. 
Melody Bokmeyer