From: Derrick Hoon [mailto:pallmall41789@hotmail.com]  
Sent: Thursday, March 15, 2007 1:09 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

What can I say.I am against the increasing the fees ,that charges for  
processing immigration applications.And I will explain why.I am married for  
a foreigner.She is in the country already 4 years.She was literally dragged  
by her father in USA.He`ve leaved here for 14 years and he is married to an  
american woman.In her country there was a lack of job openings.Also her  
father refused to pay for her education in order for her to get a job  
anywhere,because the standards there for a cashier are very hight due to the  
lack of jobs as I already sad.He refused to pay for her education even,that  
by law he was supposedto,because he divorced her mother just couple of years  
ago,but she couldn't do anything,because he was here and she was in another  
country.So her father promised my wife,that if she comes over here,they will  
file for her paperwork.He also refused to do that while she was still back  
in her country due to-she had to arrive before the middle of the year,so he  
can get tax return for her,due to her being dependent and living with him at  
least 6 months.After she arrived her father started building a house.He was  
using her as a free labor for 8 months.Also he didn't file anything until  
her visa expired,so she couldn't even go back.After that the paperwork,that  
they send to the immigration office was incomplete and they took forever to  
send anything until she just got tired of the way she was treated,because  
she felt as she was a slave.Also her father is a racist,so when he  
hearth,that we date he simply didn't send the paperwork.She left them and we  
startedd living together.After 1 year and a half in our relationship,we got  
married.It is being already a year since we filed for her spending money for  
all the forms,which are basically 1400 dollars,because she had to file other  
paperwork,because of the  one,that her parents filed first and never made  
copies of it.They had send the form I-94 without even making a copy and this  
is her only way to prove how she got here.However-we got the form  
finally.Also she has to pay another 350 dollars for physical now,plus all  
the expenses for the trips,that we`ve made to the INS "local" office,which  
is 3.30 hours away from our city.If we would like this paperwork to be  
proceeded faster of course we might need a lawyer,which cost from 2000 and  
up.My wife's work permit expired recently and they didn't want to renew  
it,because they were behind with the paperwork and almost everything,that we  
send them didn't work for us,because she wasn`t working anymore and at first  
we were filing together.She opened a businesss,that she had to close,because  
of her paperwork.She has filed twice,where all the fees have been paid in  
full.She doesn't have paperwork yet.It might take forever again and how much  
more money do we have to pay.don`t get me wrong.I am happy with all my  
hearth,that she is here and that I met her,but why does it have to be so  
unfair to people,that were forced to come over here and go thru so much  
headache because of others,that simply broke the law.How much more money do  
we have to pay in case,that everybody barely pays you the minimum wage,how  
much more paperwork do we have to send.She probably has a book filled with  
information in those offices and nothing is happening,why pay more money if  
nobody does anything for this paperwork,paperwork of an honest person,that  
all she wanted to do was just to live a normal life.Nobody did anything to  
her parents for treating her this way.Nobody called the police on him,when  
he slapped her in front of an apartment complex and dragged her for her  
hair,because all she wanted was just to run away from the slavery with these  
people.You answer me that and then decide if you really want to increase  
those fees. 

 
 
_________________________________________________________________ 
Play Flexicon: the crossword game that feeds your brain. PLAY now for FREE.   
  http://zone.msn.com/en/flexicon/default.htm?icid=flexicon_hmtagline