From: Jeff & Molly Butler [mailto:timberhollow@earthlink.net]  
Sent: Tuesday, March 27, 2007 7:05 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS- 2006-0044 

To Whom It May Concern, 

I am writing to express my disapproval of the proposed adjustment of  
the Immigration Benefit Application/ Petition and Biometric Fee  
Schedule.  I am the parent of 4 children.  All of whom were adopted  
internationally.  We are also in the process of adopting again.  The  
current fees for bringing our children home to the US are already  
over-inflated for services that are poor and inefficient.  The  
increases are also obviously discriminatory in nature.  If one wants  
to change a name on a passport it is free.  If one wants to change a  
name on a social security card it is free.  If one wants to change  
the name on a certificate of citizenship, the cost is $380!!  For a  
simple piece of paper.  Why do our children who are US citizens  
receive such discrimination? 

This same type of discrimination is apparent with the I600a and  
fingerprinting fees. Many international adoptions take two years to  
complete. With the I600a expiring in 18 months and the fingerprints  
expiring after only 15 months, that means many adoptive parents will  
have to pay those fees twice. That means itâ€™s not $125 increase for  
the I600a, but really a $250 increase. And the fingerprints will cost  
people $160, not just $80.  We will be experiencing this with our  
current adoption.  It took our inefficient USCIS office 3 months to  
process our I-600a application, causing our fingerprints to expire  
before we will be able to complete our adoption.  So we will be  
forced to pay those fees and be fingerprinted again...even though we  
are the same people with the same fingers as when we started.  It is  
also possible that our I171h will expire before our adoption is  
complete causing us to re-apply for our I600a and pay those  
extravagant fees all over again. 

International adoptions total approximately $25,000 to $30,000 per  
child adopted.  The ever increasing fees make it more and more  
difficult for the average family to grow their families by adoption  
and provide homes for the children who languish in orphanages.  I  
urge you to reconsider the proposed fee increases. 

Sincerely, 

Molly Butler