From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Jill 
Averil Keen 
Sent: Thursday, March 29, 2007 7:51 PM 
To: Emilio Gonzalez 
Subject: Don't raise the cost of citizenship! Docket# USCIS-2006-0044 

Jill Averil Keen 
1271 Minnehaha Avenue West 
St. Paul, MN 55104-1407 

March 29, 2007 

Emilio Gonzalez 
USCIS Director 

Dear Emilio Gonzalez: 

One of the pleasures of working in downtown St. Paul is walking through 
the skyway of 180 E. 5th St. on the days when new citizens are sworn in.  
From toddlers who are more interested in where to find the ice cream cones 
to proud grandparents and friends with cameras, the crowd shows off some 
of the best of our country.  Once upon a time (in NJ), my grandfather was 
one of those toddlers.  I would be sad to see fewer days and smaller 
crowds because immigrants could no longer afford to become citizens.  We 
should be welcoming those who accept the responsibilities of citizenship, 
not hindering them. 

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services plans to raise the costs of 
applying for American citizenship beyond the reach of many recent 
immigrants. 

During the past 12 years, the application costs have risen 400 percent. 
USCIS has proposed raising the cost of a green card from $325 to $905, a 
citizenship application from $330 to $595 and fingerprinting from $70 to 
$80. 

USCIS is one of the few government agencies that operates primarily on 
user fees, yet it plans to put an additional burden on people already 
working as hard as possible to become lawful U.S. citizens. Naturalization 
for a family of four would rise to $2,430. 

Congress should appropriate the funds necessary to allow thousands of 
hard-working immigrants to gain citizenship at a cost they can afford and 
USCIS should absolutely not enact these dramatic increases. 

Sincerely, 

Jill Averil Keen 
651-644-9728 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [84zwmjf7]