From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of Thomas 
Linney 
Sent: Friday, March 09, 2007 5:48 PM 
To: USCIS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 - USCIS Fee Increase Comment 

Thomas Linney 
7415 Park Terrace Drive 
Alexandria, VA 22307-2040 

March 9, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator, and parent of  2 
children adopted internationally to ask for your support and to express my 
in opposition to the February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the 
Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee 
Schedule".   

The proposed fee increases are exorbitant.  They will act as a 
disincentive for international students and scholars to study and work in 
the United States.  They will act as a disincentive for international 
adoptions.  They will make it more difficult to attract the most 
competitive workers to work for US business.   USCIS must reconsider the 
role of appropriated funds to meet the administrative needs of the agency. 
This agency has done nothing but raise fees inside the US and overseas, 
since 2001.  If these services are important to the US, they should be 
paid for by US citizens, not by visitors, future citizens or children 
being adopted.   I ask that fees be reduced to the actual cost of 
processing the application or petition under consideration. 

International students and scholars, and campus offices that employ them, 
file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS annually.  
US Business do so as well.  US agencies and prospective parents also file 
such papers.  None of these group have deep pockets, or reasons to be 
taxed extra for using US government agencies and services. 

Many colleges and universities pay the USCIS fees for the green card 
process for the person being hired.  It is less common for the fees for 
the family members, such as spouse and children, to be paid for by the 
colleges or universities.  The increases in fees will have a severe impact 
on families.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reaps immeasurable benefitsâ€"for our foreign policy, our studentsâ€™ 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public 
diplomacyâ€"from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next 
generation of world leaders to Americaâ€™s educational institutions. 

I believe the increased fees will only reinforce the inefficiencies and 
USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of Homeland Security was 
created.  The solution to correcting the systemic problems that plague the 
agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile attempt to finance a 
twenty-first century agency. A modern set of data collection tools may be 
necessary, but should not be built on fees charged to visitors and guests 
coming to the US.  Unfortunately, to meet its statutory requirements, 
USCIS is turning to its only steady source of funding, its filers and 
petitioners, to finance the required modernization of its systems.  While 
that is understandable, it is not acceptable as a matter of public policy, 
because it prices statutory benefits out of the reach of those who need 
them.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Thomas  J. Linney 
703-765-0824 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [i4404ZMR] 

Changed message text: 63.1%