Ann Highum 
Luther College 
Decorah, IA 52101 

March 20, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as the dean of students at Luther College, in 
opposition to the February 1, 2007, proposed rule â€œAdjustment of the 
Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee 
Schedule.â€(cid:31)  The proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act 
as a disincentive for international students and scholars to study and 
work in the United States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated 
funds to meet the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be 
reduced to the actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including: 

   â€¢The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340. 

   â€¢The increases in the fees required in connection with change of 
status from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 
percent increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status 
for dependents and the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) 
in the I-129 petition for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of 
the required data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part 
of the fee schedule. 

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefitsâ€"for our foreign policy, our studentsâ€™ 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public 
diplomacyâ€"from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next 
generation of world leaders to Americaâ€™s educational institutions. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency. This is not acceptable 
as a matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
the reach of those who need them.  

MOST IMPORTANTLY, this affects REAL STUDENTS--bright and wonderful young 
people who trying their very best to gain the education they deem so 
important and precious for their futures. I could tell you a fascinating 
story about each one of our 100+ international students, and the 
sacrifices they and their families have made for them to be able to study 
here at Luther.  They are willing and eager to work, especially in the 
summer--but most will find the cost of the work permit too costly to find 
in their meager budgets. 

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Ann Highum 
563 387-1020 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [xkyqBCE5] 

Changed message text: 52.0%