HUEY SHI CHEW 
118 WHITESITT HALL, 1701 S BROADWAY 
PITTSBURG, KS 66762-5856 

March 22, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule â€œAdjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule.â€(cid:31)  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive 
for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefitsâ€"for our foreign policy, our studentsâ€™ 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public 
diplomacyâ€"from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next 
generation of world leaders to Americaâ€™s educational institutions. 

As a former international student myself, I can attest that the increased 
fees will not reflect the sincerity of the US government in welcoming 
international students and encouraging them to share their expertise and 
experience here in the US.  There is enough paper work that needs to be 
done and with the increased fees, it probably will kill any enthusiasm on 
the part of the international students or scholars to file for 
applications to USCIS. 

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

HUEY SHI CHEW 
620-235-4446 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [p6392IFO] 

Changed message text: 67.4%