From: mail.relay@mailmanager.net [mailto:mail.relay@mailmanager.net] On Behalf Of 
Rebecca Eichler 
Sent: Wednesday, March 28, 2007 10:37 AM 
To: OS Comments 
Subject: DHS Docket No. USCIS-2006-0044 

Rebecca Eichler 
505 Wythe St. 
Alexandria, VA 22314-1917 

March 28, 2007 

OS Comments 

Dear OS Comments: 

Director, Regulatory Management Division 
US Citizenship and Immigration Services 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Ave. NW, 3rd floor 
Washington DC 20529. 

RE:  DHS Docket # USCIS-2006-0044 

Proposed rule â€” Adjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit 
Application and Petition Fee Schedule 

I am an immigration attorney with a small private practice in Alexandria, 
Virginia.  I am writing because I am deeply concerned about the proposed 
USCIS fee increase referenced above. 

The majority of my clients are from the world's poorer countries, here in 
the United States working at our most low-paying jobs. I represent 
cleaners and nannies, dishwashers and construction laborers.  These people 
provide the manual labor that allows US Citizens to live the comfortable 
lives that we live - in clean houses, with responsible loving people 
caring for our children, eating at restaurants and living in 
well-constructed homes. 

I am deeply troubled by the sheer size and scope of the proposed fee 
increase. USCIS plans to increase citizenship fees from $400 ($330 
application fee plus $70 fingerprinting fee) to $675 ($595 application fee 
plus $80 fingerprinting fee), an increase of 69 percent.  The fee for 
adjustment of status will more than double, from $395 ($325 application 
fee plus $70 fingerprinting fee) to $985 .  It would also raise fees for 
37 other immigration and naturalization petitions and applications at an 
average increase of 66 percent.  Furthermore, it appears that the increase 
will take place at once rather than being spread out over a period of time. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapid fee hikes of such magnitude will have a disproportionate and 
detrimental impact on the low-income immigrant community. 

The massive and abrupt fee increase proposed by USCIS will delay or 
prevent low-income immigrants from becoming U.S. citizens, reuniting with 
their families, contributing their knowledge and skills to our economy, 
and settling into our society after having escaped persecution. 

-A family of four LPRs who want to apply for U.S. citizenship at the same 
time will now have to have $2,700 at their disposal in order to achieve 
their American dream together. 

-A family of four which has been granted asylum in the U.S. and is 
applying for permanent residence will now need $3,620 in hand in order to 
apply for permanent residence. 

-Furthermore, asylees applying for permanent residence will be ineligible 
to apply for fee waivers, no matter how dire their financial situation may 
be, because USCIS intends to categorically eliminate fee waivers for I-485 
applications for adjustment as a part of the fee increase. 

-The proposal would also prohibit U.S. citizens and LPRs from requesting 
fee waivers on I-130 relative petitions on the grounds that the 
petitioners must file affidavits of support to show that they can support 
their beneficiaries should they be unable to do so themselves.  

The minimum wage in Virginia is $5.15 an hour.  In order to earn enough to 
pay for an application for adjustment of status, a low-skilled worker 
would have to work 191 hours - almost 5 months full-time.  My client with 
two children who cleans houses for minimum wage would have to work for 
over a year just to earn the money for her immigration fees.  Of course, 
this does not even take into consideration the cost of rent, 
transportation, food, and child care that she has to spend to earn her 
salary.  Basically, the cost of applying for her green card will become 
prohibitively out of her reach.  Though her dream is to make a better life 
for her children, she will remain at the fringes of our society, unable to 
get on the path to full citizenship. 

Given the speed, scope and scale of the proposed fee increase, I believe 
that USCIS customers must receive faster, greater, and more concrete 
improvements in processing times and customer service. The fee increase 
proposal itself does not appear to set forth any concrete targets for 
improvement in these areas. 

Finally, I believe that certain improvements which the USCIS wants to 
finance through the fee increase would be better addressed through the 
normal budget and appropriations process. For instance, while I support 
USCIS's efforts to improve its fraud detection capacity and to modernize 
its business and technological infrastructure, I do not believe that 
immigrants and their families should bear the sole burden for these 
efforts. 

In conclusion, I urge USCIS to reconsider the proposed fee increase.  I 
hope that the agency will work with immigrant communities, and with 
Congress, to develop a functioning, effective immigration system that will 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
benefit our country. 

Sincerely, 

Rebecca N. Eichler, Esq. 
703-338-8791