David Thomas 
P.O. Box 1183 
Estes Park, CO 80517-1183 

March 21, 2007 

Regulatory Management Div U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service 
Department of Homeland Security 
111 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, 3rd Floor 
Washington, DC 20529 

Dear Director, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service: 

I oppose the proposed increases in USCIS service fees.  Such increases 
will disrupt family unity, further victimize vulnerable populations, and 
be economically infeasible for low-income immigrants.  

Please tell me how these proposed increases will further the current 
administration's goal of comprehensive immigration reform.  Such reform 
must make it easier for legal migrants and immigrants to enter our country 
in order to provide valuable labor in jobs that most U.S. citizens simply 
don't want.  It is important, also, that such comprehensive reform include 
a path to citizenship for those hard-working people who have already been 
living in our country without proper documents. 

While I agree that service quality should be improved to eliminate the 
backlog and remedy misplaced cases (up to 110,000 as estimated by the 
GAO), this burden should not be borne solely by immigrants who are already 
struggling to cover agency payments.  Immigrants paying these fees are 
law-abiding individuals who pay taxes, contribute to their communities, 
speak English, and know American history.  We all benefit from increases 
in legal immigration and citizenship - economically and culturally.  

I am especially concerned with the burden that the proposed increases 
would place on families. Families are the backbone of our society.  Our 
immigration policies should never prevent a mother from being with her 
children, or a husband from joining his wife. I especially oppose all fee 
increases that would jeopardize family reunification, noting particularly 
I-129F, I-130, I-600/A, and I-187.  

The integrity of families should not be sacrificed in a "business 
decision" - USCIS officials' justification for the fee increases.  
Besides, government services lack the price-control mechanisms present in 
competitive markets.  It's essentially a non-competitive situation in 
which the government has a monopoly and the "customer" has no choice but 
to pay the increased fees. 

Under this new fee structure, an individual earning minimum wage would 
have to save an entire month's pay in order to file an adjustment of 
status application ($1,370, up from $180).  This is ridiculous!  Faced 
with the proposed $595 fee (up from $330) for a naturalization 
application, parents should not have to choose which child can apply for 
citizenship versus another. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I commend USCIS for eliminating fees for certain interim benefits and 
initial applications for T-visas (I-914) and VAWA qualifying individuals.  
However, these vulnerable populations would still suffer from the proposed 
changes.  Victims of human trafficking and gender-based violence are often 
in desperate financial situations.  Should these increases take effect, 
many could not afford to adjust their status, apply for work permits, or 
reunify their families, and could face deportation or elongated detention. 

Rather than enacting these fee increases, USCIS should work with Congress 
to create an alternative and permanent funding stream for immigration 
services.  No law prohibits USCIS from diversifying its revenue through 
congressional appropriations, which has been accomplished in the past.  
Officials also should take into account various alternatives to detention 
and deportation that would prove more cost effective and less harmful to 
families and communities in the United States.  For example, the program 
of deporting undocumented migrants back to MÃ©xico and other countries in 
Latin America by charter flights is costly.  Instead, why doesn't our 
government work more closely with the governments of those countries, 
sharing the cost of returning the deportees to their homelands by regular 
scheduled bus service, which would be far less expensive? 

In the name of families, vulnerable populations and those seeking a better 
life, please do not enact the proposed USCIS fee increases. 

Sincerely, 

David Thomas 
210-857-2347