Anneke Larrance 
St. Lawrence University 
Canton, NY 13617-1475 

March 6, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am an international student adviser at St. Lawrence University, a 
liberal arts school in upstate New York.  I oppose the proposed rule 
â€œAdjustment of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application 
and Petition Fee Schedule.â€(cid:31)  The international students at St. Lawrence 
University are often here on scholarship.  They are competitivelly 
selected and are of the highest academic caliber, but they do not have 
many resources. 

The proposed fee increases will mean either that the students cannot take 
advantage of an opportunitty to which they are legally eligible or it will 
cause undue financial hardship. 

USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Anneke Larrance 
315-229-5991 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [05wbcjk7] 

Changed message text: 63.7%