Jennifer Bowen 
441 E. Southern Drive 
Bloomington, IN 47401-6549 

March 25, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as a private citizen who has been made aware of this 
extreme increase in USCIS fees as a result of my work in the field of 
international education.  It is important for me to tell you that I stand 
in direct opposition to the February 1, 2007, proposed rule â€œAdjustment 
of the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee 
Schedule.â€(cid:31)  

I have been fortunate to work with international students and scholars for 
ten and a half years now, and I live in a very diverse community in the 
state of Indiana with a large number of foreign-born persons.  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive 
for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I join my professional colleagues and 
fellow private citizens in asking that fees be reduced to the actual cost 
of processing the application or petition.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including: 

   * The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340.  We assist between 600-900 students per year with this 
type of application, and for students who are at the end of their time in 
college, coming up with $340 is a greater task than most people may 
realize. 

   * The increases in the fees required in connection with change of 
status from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 
percent increase) in the I-539 application to change non-immigrant status 
for dependents and the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) 
in the I-129 petition for non-immigrant worker.  These fees are on top of 
the required data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part 
of this particular fee schedule. 

   * The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in the 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of 
those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be 
paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.)  Putting the 
burden on those who neither need nor want some of these benefits in order 
to pay for "enhancements" to a system in serious need of a complete 
overhaul seems to be akin to placing Band-Aid where a tourniquet would be 
applicable.  

Many colleges and universities pay the USCIS fees for the green card 
process for the person being hired.  It is less common for the fees for 
the family members, such as spouse and children, to be paid for by the 
colleges or universities.  The increases in fees will have a severe impact 
on families.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefit for our foreign policy, our students' 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy from 
attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of world 
leaders to America's educational institutions.  The United States 
continues to be seen as retracting the welcome mat rather than extending 
it to the best and brightest students and scholars in the world.  
Increasing these fees simply adds fuel to that fire. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to meet 
its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady source of 
funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required modernization 
of its systems.  That is a common practice in a number of business areas, 
but it is not acceptable as a matter of public policy, because it prices 
statutory benefits out of the reach of those who need them.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of re-instituting and expanding this process speak for 
themselves:  no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be 
performed by the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really 
needs to do.  There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to 
require agency approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange 
Visitor Information System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to 
devolve this responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of 
processing this unnecessary application process continues to drive up the 
fee.  In addition, the spectre of "premium processing" - instituted 
initially as a temporary procedure in order to alleviate a significant 
back-log within the Service Centers - has been accepted as a matter of 

 
 
 
 
course, and has in fact been expanded to additional petitions.  It seems 
that it will only be a matter of time before premium processing fees 
become the sole source for a beneficiary to receive adjudication of his 
case in a timely fashion. 

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Jennifer A. Bowen 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [krojSFB7] 

Changed message text: 74.8%