From: vickil1228@atcnet.net [mailto:vickil1228@atcnet.net]  
Sent: Monday, March 26, 2007 10:02 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2066-0044 

As a legal immigrant who arrived in the United States in July of 2002 I am 
outraged at the proposed fee increase to apply for permanent resident 
status. I complied with the conditions of the K-1 visa under which I 
arrived in the United States by marrying my husband, a U.S. citizen, on 
July 26, 2002. Unfortunately since my husband receives Social Security 
which is the only income in this home, we have been unable to complete any 
of the other requirements to allow me to become a permanent resident aside 
from having yet another medical. There simply isn't any spare money to 
apply for the change of status and yet now a fee increase will make any 
further action simply unattainable, especially since my passport also 
expires in April of 2007. What is even more outrageous is a proposed bill 
(The STRIVE bill) which allows illegal immigrants to pay a lesser fee of 
only $500 for permanent status. As I see it those who wait in line and 
enter this country legally are being penalized for following the rules 
while those who have broken the rules are being rewarded. Poor Thomas 
Jefferson must surely be spinning in his grave as he sees yet another 
example of the government ignoring the Declaration of Independence. The 
line of which I speak is "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all 
men are created equal..." and yet that is no longer the case when it comes 
to immigration! No system is perfect and with bureaucracy involved things 
become increasingly muddied, and nowhere is this more apparent than with 
the immigration branch. Perhaps it is time that legal immigrants were 
rewarded for following the rules, instead of rewarding those who break the 
law! 

Sincerely, 
Vicki Larsen 
Idaho 

-------------------------------------------------------------------- 
mail2web.com - MicrosoftÂ® Exchange solutions from a leading provider - 
http://link.mail2web.com/Business/Exchange