I have been an immigration attorney in private 
practice for over 15 years and am writing to voice my 
concern about the proposed fee increases.  While I 
have severe reservations about many of the proposed 
fee increases, I want to direct my attention at this 
point to the serious impediment that adjustment 
application fee increases will pose to families with 
multiple applicants.  If the term family values has 
any meaning, there should be a cap to fees paid for 
household members immigrating together.  Secondly, it 
is unfair to represent that a consolidated fee of $905 
includes e ployment authorization and advance parole. 
In many cases applicants cannot, becuase of their 
immigration situation, travel without jeopardizing 
their eligibility to adjust. It is unfair to represent 
that they are geting a benefit that they cannot use. 
Thirdly, applications for employment authorization are 
being processed more slowly and adjustment interviews 
scheduled more quickly in immediate relative cases so 
that typically the EAD is usable for 60 days. In fact, 
applicants are discouraged from seeking a benefit that 
they cannot use for any significant period of time. 

Finally, I cannot support natuiralization application 
fee increases that in fact would discourage permanent 
residents from seeking to become fully participating 
citizens of our country. It is an unfortunate signal 
to send that "you can become  citizen if you can 
afford it." 

Thank you for your attention. 

Very truly yours, 
Judith Michaels Morrow