Hello, 

I would like to comment on he proposed fee and other changes for  
2008-2009. I agree changes are needed and the system must be upgraded  
and electronic data use din place of paper documents when possible.  
The problem I have is that I am currently in the begining of the  
process as my NOA-1 was posted at the California office on December  
27. I have not received any communication on the status other than  
the original one sent to me on 1/8/07.(Case pending) I understand  
there are other cases being processed in order before mine but I do  
not think I should have pay the increase in fees as I will not  
benefit form any as my case should be completed before 2008. 

But I will still have to pay the largest fee, which is the removal of  
conditional to permanent resident status sometime in  probably 2009.  
I do not think this is fair and the cases that are in process now  
should not bear the burden of ones that come after who will reap the  
benefits. The increase should start with new applicants after the new  
fees are formally approved. I have had to spend so much time and  
money just to bring my fiance here that now my credit has suffered  
from having to use credit cards to pay for the current fees. So my  
credit score has dropped and I am unable to qualify for even a low  
income housing unit that I could have easily qualified for a year ago. 

This is all I ask-grandfather the new fees in and do not make the  
people who have had to go through the difficult and costly process at  
present pay for future applicants who will have their Visa's done in  
a much quicker  and easier system. I thank you for your offer to  
comment. 

Best Regards, 

Robert H. Pugh