From: Bridget Hollan-Tu [mailto:barnabydog2@yahoo.com]  
Sent: Wednesday, March 28, 2007 8:04 PM 
To: OSComments 
Subject: USCIS-2006-0044 

To Whom It May Concern: 
Respectfully, I ask that you reconsider increasing 
fees for the filing of these documents. 

There are many fees involved in international adoption 
and those of us who want to be the parents of children 
from other countries go to great lengths to acquire 
the monies needed.  We have borrowed money from 
family, friends, and even credit card companies.  Some 
people will even borrow against the equity in their 
homes. 

Most couples or individuals who adopt do so because 
they have fertility issues.  Before beginning the 
adoption process, the majority of the people will go 
through extensive fertility tests, most of which are 
not paid for by insurance. 

The reason my husband and I are adopting are two-fold: 
 premature menopause and infertility due to 
chemotherapy.  There are a lot of people who have gone 
through similar circumstances. 

Increasing fees will be an extra burden to those of us 
patiently completing a great amount of paperwork and 
then waiting for months to finally be allowed to 
adopt.  Please help us by not increasing these fees. 

Sincerely, 
Bridget Hollan-Tu 
Houston, TX 

____________________________________________________________________________________ 
Don't get soaked.  Take a quick peek at the forecast 
with the Yahoo! Search weather shortcut. 
http://tools.search.yahoo.com/shortcuts/#loc_weather