Rosanne Roraback 
DePaul University ISO, 1465 Lewis Bldg., 25 East Jackson 
Chicago, IL 60626-2201 

March 7, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

I am writing to you as an international educator in opposition to the 
February 1, 2007, proposed rule "Adjustment of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee Schedule."  The 
proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will act as a disincentive 
for international students and scholars to study and work in the United 
States.  USCIS must reconsider the role of appropriated funds to meet the 
administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be reduced to the 
actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including: 

   •The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340. 

   •The increases in the fees required in connection with change of status 
from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 percent 
increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status for 
dependents and the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) in 
the I-129 petition for nonimmigrant worker.  These fees are on top of the 
required data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part of 
the fee schedule. 

   •The huge increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  (The proposed increase in the 
I-485 fee is partly offset by the fact that it is accompanied by the 
elimination of additional filing fees for work authorization and for 
permission to re-enter after traveling abroad.  However, the inclusion of 
those fees in the proposed new I-485 fee means that they would have to be 
paid even by those who do not expect to require the benefit.) 

Many colleges and universities pay the USCIS fees for the green card 
process for the person being hired.  It is less common for the fees for 
the family members, such as spouse and children, to be paid for by the 
colleges or universities.  The increases in fees will have a severe impact 
on families.  

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefits—for our foreign policy, our students' 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public diplomacy—from 
attracting the best and brightest minds and the next generation of world 
leaders to America's educational institutions. 

Unfortunately, to meet its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its 
only steady source of funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the 
required modernization of its systems.  While that is understandable, it 
is not beneficial to this country as a public policy, because it prices 
statutory benefits out of the reach of those who need them, and further 
discourages students abroad from choosing the U.S. as a study destination. 
 According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, international education is 
the 5th largest "export" of the U.S. economy, since it essentially brings 
foreign currency into our economy   Our students contribute both to U.S. 
universities in terms of tuition dollars, and to the general local economy 
through apartment rental, expenditures related to daily living, and 
tourism dollars brought into the U.S. by family members who visit from 
abroad. 

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

Rosanne L. Roraback 
312.362.8889 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [GOG40Qk5] 

Changed message text: 30.5%