Heidi Staerkel 
Washburn University, 1700 SW College Ave. 
Topeka, KS 66621-0001 

March 20, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

My name is Heidi Staerkel, and I am an international student advisor at 
Washburn University in Topeka, Kansas.  I am writing you this message in 
strong opposition to the February 1, 2007, proposed rule â€œAdjustment of 
the Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee 
Schedule.â€(cid:31)  The proposed fee increases are so exorbitant they will 
strongly discourage international students and scholars from studying and 
working in the United States.  The USCIS must reconsider the role of 
appropriated funds to meet the administrative needs of the agency.  I am 
asking that fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing the 
application or petition.  

International students and scholars, and campus officials that employ 
them, file tens of thousands of petitions and applications with USCIS 
annually, including: 

   â€¢The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340.  Here at Washburn, for example, we have approximately 
7-12 students apply for this benefit each semester.  Because F-1 students 
usually apply for OPT at the end of their degree, they are often already 
financially strapped, and this fee increase would further place an 
unnecessary burden on them. 

   â€¢The increases in the fees required in connection with change of 
status from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 
percent increase) in the I-539 application to change non-immigrant status 
for dependents and the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) 
in the I-129 petition for non-immigrant worker.  These fees are on top of 
the required data collection and fraud prevention fee, which is not part 
of the fee schedule. 

Apart from the direct impact of the excessive fees, they are contrary to 
clearly expressed U.S. policies.  The President, the Secretary of State, 
and indeed the Secretary of Homeland Security have expressed clearly and 
often the high value that the United States places on attracting 
international students and scholars to this country.  The United States 
reaps immeasurable benefitsâ€"for our foreign policy, our studentsâ€™ 
education, our economy, our competitiveness, and our public 
diplomacyâ€"from attracting the best and brightest minds and the next 
generation of world leaders to Americaâ€™s educational institutions.  We 
at Washburn are finally beginning to see a small increase in our F-1 visa 
student numbers after September 11th, and I strongly believe that these 
massive fee increases would again lead to declining F-1 student numbers. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to meet 
its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady source of 
funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required modernization 
of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not acceptable as a 
matter of public policy, because it prices statutory benefits out of the 
reach of those who need them.  

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of re-instituting and expanding this process speak for 
themselves:  no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be 
performed by the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really 
needs to do.  There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to 
require agency approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange 
Visitor Information System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to 
devolve this responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of 
processing this unnecessary application process continues to drive up the 
fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

I thank you for the opportunity to comment on this proposed rule and urge 
you to act in a way which will demonstrate that the U.S. is truly serious 
about continuing to encourage international students and scholars to come 
study and work in the U.S. 

Sincerely, 

Heidi R. Staerkel 
785-670-2087 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [CLU84Zx8] 

Changed message text: 30.4%