David Lenze 
220 Business Building 
University Park, PA 16802-3603 

March 6, 2007 

USCIS Comments 

Dear USCIS Comments: 

My name is David Lenze and I am the Sr. Associate Director of Admissions 
for the Smeal MBA Program at Penn State.  I am writing to you to express 
my opposition to the February 1, 2007, proposed rule ï¿½Adjustment of the 
Immigration and Naturalization Benefit Application and Petition Fee 
Schedule.ï¿½  

Our MBA Program is ranked among the top 40 MBA Programs in the country and 
a key element of the program is its global perspective.  Accordingly, 
about a third of our students are from outside of the US.  We have 
additional capacity in our program, so they do not ever take an 
opportunity away from a qualified US student.  Instead, they add a key 
element to our educational experience and bring significant tuition to the 
University, and help further America's position as an economic and 
educational leader.  

We compete for the world's best students with programs from Europe and 
Australia.  The European's, in particular, have made agressive moves 
(i.e., the Bologna Accord) to take a larger share of the educational 
marketplace.  Our answer to this increased competition seems ludicrous.  
We are considering raising fees which will serve as in increased financial 
and psychological barrier to students who would consider studying in the 
US.  

The proposed fee increases will act as a disincentive for international 
students and scholars to study and work in the United States.  I request 
that you work to influence USCIS to reconsider the role of appropriated 
funds to meet the administrative needs of the agency.  I ask that fees be 
reduced to the actual cost of processing the application or petition.  

Fees that are proposed to increase include: 

   ï¿½The near-doubling of the I-765 fee for international students in F 
status to apply for work authorization for Optional Practical Training, 
from $180 to $340. 

   ï¿½The increases in the fees required in connection with change of 
status from F to H-1B, including the increase from $200 to $300 (a 50 
percent increase) in the I-539 application to change nonimmigrant status 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for dependents and the increase from $190 to $320 (a 68 percent increase) 
in the I-129 petition for nonimmigrant worker.  

   ï¿½The increases in the fees required to adjust status from H-1B to 
legal permanent resident (green-card status), including:  the 
near-tripling of the I-485 application fee for permanent residence, from 
$325 to $905; and the increase from $195 to $475 (143 percent) in the 
I-140 immigrant petition for alien worker.  

America has traditionally drawn strength from attracting the best and the 
brightest from around the world to study here.  After they do, they 
sometimes become valued citizens here in the US and they sometimes carry 
our culture and values around the world.  Either way, it is great for 
America.  

These fee increases send the message that we don't want international 
students.   This message is wrong and this policy is extremely 
shortsighted. 

Regrettably, the increased fees will reinforce the inefficiencies and 
dysfunctionalities USCIS inherited from INS when the Department of 
Homeland Security was created.  The solution to correcting the systemic 
problems that plague the agency is not to keep raising fees in a futile 
attempt to finance a twenty-first century agency.  Unfortunately, to meet 
its statutory requirements, USCIS is turning to its only steady source of 
funding, its filers and petitioners, to finance the required modernization 
of its systems.  While that is understandable, it is not acceptable as a 
matter of public policy, because it undermines the best interest of the 
country. 

The fact that USCIS operates on a fee-funded basis creates a built-in 
incentive to subsidize unnecessary work.  This creates an incentive to 
requiring USCIS approval for things; that way, you can charge a fee for 
processing the request, which provides necessary income to finance your 
broader operations.  The I-765 fee for Optional Practical Training is a 
classic example.  It used to be possible for school officials designated 
by the INS to approve OPT in accordance with agency regulations.  The 
benefits of reinstituting and expanding this process speak for themselves: 
 no application, no processing, no fee, one less task to be performed by 
the agency, more time to devote to what the agency really needs to do.  
There is no obvious public policy reason for USCIS to require agency 
approval for OPT today.  With the Student and Exchange Visitor Information 
System (SEVIS) now fully in place, it would be easy to devolve this 
responsibility back onto the schools.  Yet the cost of processing this 
unnecessary application process continues to drive up the fee.  

While I understand that USCIS is permitted by law to recover the full cost 
of its services through fees, and indeed has no other option so long as 
Congress is unwilling to appropriate funds for the operation of the 
agency, I ask that the fees be reduced to the actual cost of processing 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the application or petition.  Meanwhile, I ask Congress to step up to its 
responsibility for fixing the untenable situation that drives these fee 
increases. 

Thank you for the opportunity to comment. 

Sincerely, 

David L. Lenze 
814-865-7338 

This message has been verified by CapwizXC as authentic and sent by this 
individual.  Authentication ID: [97fdpst4] 

Changed message text: 56.4%